# ProjectEuler0002
My work on 

problem #2 of projecteuler.net:

Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by adding the previous two terms. By starting with 1 and 2, the first 10 terms will be:

1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, ...

By considering the terms in the Fibonacci sequence whose values do not exceed four million, find the sum of the even-valued terms.

Completed on Fri, 19 Feb 2021, 17:02

#######################################################################################
Please note: Project Euler's policy allows publication of solutions for the first 100 problems,
that's why I am sharing my work here for reference and educational purposes.
#######################################################################################

Brute force approach is straightforward: calculate Fibonacci sequence from its definition, check its terms for evenness, collect the sum of the even ones.

But to improve on this, first, we notice, that due to the properties of the Fibonacci exactly every 3d term is even, so we need to explore the new sequence:

0, 2, 8, 34, 144...

Checking in the oeis.org database we can find that for this sequence G(n+2) = 4*G(n+1) + G(n),
which can also be proven directly:

G(n) = F(m)
G(n+1) = F(m+3) = F(m+1) + F(m+2) = F(m+1) + F(m) + F(m+1) = G(n) + 2*F(m+1)
G(n+2) = F(m+6) = G(n+1) + 2*F(m+4) = G(n+1) + 2*(F(m+3) + F(m+2)) = G(n+1) + 2*(G(n+1) + F(m+1) + F(m)) 
= 3*G(n+1) + 2*(F(m+1) + G(n)) = 3*G(n+1) + 2*G(n) + 2*(G(n+1) - G(n))/2 = 4*G(n+1) + G(n)

Now, the sum of this sequence is another sequence, which can also be found at oeis.org:

0, 2, 10, 44, 188, 798, ...

and its general formula is S(n) = (G(n+1) + G(n) - 2)/4, which can be proven by induction.

Indeed, it is true for 2 = (8 + 2 - 2)/4.

Assume S(n) = (G(n+1) + G(n) - 2)/4, then 

S(n+1) = S(n) + G(n+1) = G(n+1) + (G(n+1) + G(n) - 2)/4 = (G(n+1) + 4*G(n+1) + G(n) - 2)/4 = (G(n+2) + G(n+1) - 2)/4

QED

Now we just need to calculate the sequence of G(n) until we reach the limit, and use its last two terms to calculate the sum.

As we can see, this cuts the calculation time in half.

Java code just implements the the faster approach. Python explores both and shows the computation time for them.
















